Career Anchors Questionnaire
On a scale of 1 - 4 (1 low, 4 high) rate how the following statements apply to you.
1. I want to be really good at my job, one of the best, an expert. TF
2. I really feel most satisfied when I am able to manage the work of others to achieve a common goal.
GMC
3. Ideally I want to do things my way and to my own timetable. AI
4. I would much rather build my own business than be the boss in someone else’s. EC
5. I believe that security and stability are much more important than having the freedom to choose
how I work. SS
6. My ideal career will enable me to integrate all of my needs – whether work, personal or family.
LS
7. It is important to me that I use my talents to further the greater good. S
8. I get a kick out of solving the unsolvable or winning against the odds. PC
9. I will only feel really successful when I have the freedom to define my work. AI
10. I feel most satisfied and fulfilled when I am able to use my expertise, talents and skills. TF
11. I would really like to start my own business one day. EC
12. I would be very uncomfortable working in an organisation that took a lot of risks. I prefer to work
for an organisation that offers stability and security. SS
13. I would rather seek employment elsewhere than move to a role that seriously undermined my
ability to serve the greater good/others. S S
14. I prefer to work on projects that really challenge my problem-solving skills and have a
competitive element. PC
15. I would rather find a new job than accept a role that puts constraints on how I do my work.
AI 16. Balancing my work with my family and personal commitments is more important to me than a
senior position. LS
17. One day I would like to be the boss, in charge of a whole organisation. GMC
18. Reaching a position of seniority in my area of expertise is far more important to me than
becoming a more senior general manager. TF
19. I want to make a difference in my career. I will only be truly satisfied if I feel I have made a real
contribution to society. S
20. Working on difficult problems is more important to me than achieving a high-level position.
PC 21. My preference in choosing a role would be to seek out opportunities that minimise any
interference with my personal life (family, friends etc). LS
22. I would feel really fulfilled if I was able to create an enterprise that was primarily the result of my
ingenuity, skills and efforts. EC EC
23. Job security and financial independence are really important to me. SS
24. I would rather become a general manager with broader responsibilities than become a senior
functional manager in my area of expertise. GMC
Career Anchors: score chart
Record your scores in the grid below.
TF
TECHNICAL/FUNCTIONAL COMPETENCE
1………….
10………….
18………….
TOTAL………

GMC
GENERAL MANAGEMENT COMPETENCE
2…………..
17…………..
24…………..
TOTAL………
AI
AUTONOMY/INDEPENDENCE
3.....
9.....
15.....
TOTAL....
SS
SECURITY/STABILITY
5.....
23.....
12.....
TOTAL....
EC
ENTREPRENEURIAL CREATIVITY
4.......
11......
22.....
TOTAL....
S
SERVICE/DEDICATION TO A CAUSE
7....
13....
19...
TOTAL....
PC
PURE CHALLENGE
8.....
14.....
20.....
TOTAL....
LS
LIFESTYLE
6.....
16.....
21.....
TOTAL....

What are your top two or three? Read through the descriptions of Schein’s career anchors. Do you think your score reflects what is important to you?

Description of Career Anchors
•This kind of person likes being good at something and will
work to become a guru or expert. They will commit
themselves to specializing in their field. They like to be
challenged and then use their skill to meet the challenge,
doing the job properly and better than almost anyone else.
They may be willing to be ‘functional managers’ but will not
value the concerns of general management. If the work does
not test their abilities and skills, they will very quickly become
bored.
Technical /
Functional
competence
•Unlike technical/functional people, these individuals want to
be managers; and not just to climb the ladder, or earn more
money. They find that it is management per se that interests
them. They like problem-solving and dealing with other
people. They thrive on responsibility and ideally will look to
rise up through the organizational levels so they can be in a
position to make major policy decisions. To be successful, they
will need analytical, emotional, interpersonal and intergroup
competence.
General
Managerial
competence
•Some people come to recognize that they find it really hard to
be bound by other people’s rules, procedures, working hours,
or dress codes. In short, all of the things that come with
working in any kind of organization. Primarily, these people
have a need to work under their own rules and steam.
Regardless of the type of work, they want to do things in their
own way and at their own pace. They like clearly delineated,
time-bound work within their area of expertise. As such, they
will often gravitate towards careers that afford them as much
autonomy as possible.
Autonomy/
Independence
•Security-focused people seek stability and continuity as a
primary factor of their lives. We all need varying degrees of
security at different points in our lives, however for some this
is the predominant orientation throughout their lives and will
certainly guide their career decisions. They will often seek out
stable organisations that provide the greatest opportunity for
job security. They also tend to prefer stable, predictable work
tasks. They also need to believe that loyalty makes a real
contribution to an organisation’s performance.
Security /
Stability
•People who have this anchor, have an overriding need to
create new products or services. Whilst creativity exists in
one form or another in all the groups, for the entrepreneur
creating a new venture, product or service of some sort is
essential to their sense of success and fulfilment. They are
obsessed with their need to create, are restless and
continually require new creative challenges. They like to run
their own businesses, but differ from those who seek
autonomy in that they will share the workload. Ownership is
more important than making money, although this is viewed
as a key measure of success.
Entrepreneurial
Creativity
•Some people will pursue a career because they want to
embody their core values in their work and careers. As such,
they have a keener orientation towards their values than any
talents or competencies. Their choices will be based on a
desire to improve the world in some way. They will want work
that allows them to influence their employing organisations in
the direction of their values. Service-oriented people are
driven by how they can help other people more than using
their talents (which may fall in other areas).
Service /
Dedication to a
cause
•Some people are driven by challenge. They will define success
as overcoming tremendous obstacles, solving the unsolvable
or winning out against impossible odds. They will seek
constant stimulation and difficult problems that they can
tackle. Most people will want a degree of challenge in their
work, but for this type the challenge is the only thing that
matters. Such people will change jobs when the current one
gets boring and their career histories can be very varied.
Pure Challenge
•Initially it appears that the notion that one’s career anchor is
organized around lifestyle is a contradiction in terms.
However, many people who are highly motivated towards a
meaningful career, find themselves in situations that mean
their careers must be integrated into their total lifestyle. This
is an evolving process, ergo people who find themselves in this
situation want flexibility above all else. When seeking
employment they are more likely to be interested in an
organisation’s attitude towards personal/family concerns, than
the sector or area of expertise. They may even take long
periods off work in which to indulge in their passions.
Lifestyle